<pre>
  BIP:     DHKEC
  Title:   Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange Coloring
  Authors: Justus Ranvier <justus@monetas.net>
           Jimmy Song <jimmy@monetas.net>
  Status:  Draft
  Type:    Informational
  Created: 2014-11-04
</pre>

==Abstract==

This BIP defines a new color kernel for transaction-based coloring suitable for Diffie-Hellman payments.

==Motivation==

This kernel is useful for creating dividible transferrable tokens which can be used to receive periodic payments from the issuer of the color.

It is not desirable for payments to be sent to the same script as where the colored coins are held, because this increases the risk of accidental mismanagement of the colored units.

==Color Descriptor==

As with other transaction-based colors, the identifier for a DHKEC color consist of a named outpoint in the blockchain (the genesis output).

The kernel prefix is DHKEC

The first parameter is the txid of the genesis output

The second parameter is the index of the genesis output

The third parameter is the block height at which the genesis output transaction occurs

===Example===

DHKEC:a1075db55d416d3ca199f55b6084e2115b9345e16c5cf302fc80e9d5fbf5d48d:0:57043

==Kernel==

All coloring rules are identical to EPOBC, except for restrictions on the allowed script types.

Every script associated with an DHKEC colored ouput must be one of two forms:

* Pay-to-pubkey
* Pay-to-multisig

This ensures that every colored token in the blockchain contains one or more exposed public keys which can be used for Diffie-Hellman negociation.

===Genesis Output===

The genesis output of a DHKEC color has an additional restriction that it must be a pay-to-pubkey output, and only certain types of pay-to-multisig scripts are allowed:

* n must be greater than or equal to two
* m must be ≤ (n-1)

The first two public keys listed in the genesis output script encode a BIP32 extended public key (pubkey + chain code).

The first public key is the pubkey portion of the extended public keys, in compressed form.

The second public key is the chain code, serialized as a compressed ECDSA key.

==Sending payments==

The issuer of a DHKEC series can send payments to holders of the colored coins by using the Diffie-Hellman protocol to derive new payment addresses.

# Divide the amount to be send by the number of issued units to determine the amount to be sent per unit
# Select an index value and transmit this index to the colored coin holders out-of-band
# Derive the private (a) and public (A) key given by the index and the extended key contained in the genesis output
# Enumerate all colored units and get their associated scripts and color balances.
# For pay-to-pubkey scripts:
## Each script contains a public key (B), for which the holder controls the associated private key (b)
## Calculate a shared secret S = aB
## Derive a destination public key B'= B + S
## Create a pay-to-pubkey-hash output where the amount is equal to step 1 * the color balance of the colored outpoint
# For pay-to-multisig scripts:
## Each script contains n public keys (B1, B2 ... Bn), for which the holder controls the associated private keys (b1, b2 ... bn)
## Calculate n shared secrets (S1 = aB1) ... (Sn = aBn)
## Derive n destination public keys (B1' = B1 + S1) ... (Bn' = Bn + Sn)
## Create a P2SH output which is redeemed by a pay-to-multisig script where the amount is equal to step 1 * the color balance of the colored outpoint
### Use the same m and n parameters in the redeem script from the colored output.
### Place the destination public keys in the same order as those from which they were derived

==Receiving payments==

The recipient can determine the script at which payments will be received by performing a similar Diffie-Hellman derivation as the sender after receiving the index value from the issuer.

The scripts are calculated as in the Sending payments section, except:

The recipient calculates the shared secret as: S = bA

The private key needed to spend the resulting outputs is calculated as b' = b + S 

==Compatible wallets==

* [[https://github.com/conformal/btcd|btcd]] contains the reference implementation of DHKEC.

==Reference==

* [[https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki|BIP32]]
* [[https://github.com/chromaway/ngcccbase/wiki/Colors|Parametrized color kernels]]
* [[https://github.com/chromaway/ngcccbase/wiki/EPOBC|EPOBC]]